# Milestone Journal
- **April 5, 2026:** Created a Security Baseline Profile for Windows 10 and later; leveraged Gemini and MgGraph to create a [script](https://github.com/builtbyke/ke-cloud-journey/blob/main/scripts/powershell/Export-IntuneEndpointSecurityBaselineSettings.ps1) that exports the Baseline config and converts it to [JSON](https://github.com/builtbyke/ke-cloud-journey/blob/main/configs/Direct_Graph_Baseline.json); Created a [google sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LZDL1nAFu4WAKgq0AAAeezCvxZFl0G2rcQlBfvrIuz0/edit?usp=sharing) to track my progress on this lab.

- **March 28, 2026:** Created an Endpoint Security policy for BitLocker Disk Encryption; Configured Recovery Password Rotation for Entra ID-joined devices and Administrative Templates for Operating System drive encryption; Created LAPS Configuration Profile

  - Details: I utilized my mini PC (ACEMAGICIAN w/ 64GB RAM, 2TB SSD, Ryzen 7 5700U running ESXi 8.0.3) to virtualize several Windows 11 Pro devices.
      - Issues: Because the standalone ESXi environment required additional configuration for vTPM support, I utilized a registry bypass during the Windows 11 installation to proceed without a TPM (please see [reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/vmware/comments/qopb82/comment/mlrzs07/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button)). To accommodate this in Intune, I specifically enabled the policy "Allow BitLocker without a compatible TPM." This ensures the OS drive remains encrypted via a password or startup key. To further harden the environment, I enabled "Require additional authentication at startup" and configured Recovery Password Rotation to automatically refresh for Entra ID-joined devices.
        
  - LAPS: To secure these endpoints, I implemented a LAPS policy targeting a custom local administrator account named "Admin." This policy ensures that local administrator passwords are backed up exclusively to Microsoft Entra ID, centralizing management and reducing the risk of local credential theft. To maintain a rigorous security posture, I configured a strict 7-day password rotation cycle with maximum complexity requirements, including uppercase, lowercase, numbers, and special characters. Additionally, I enabled post-authentication actions to force an automatic password reset upon the expiry of the grace period. This ensures that once the "Admin" account is used for a task, the credentials are changed immediately to maintain a Zero Trust environment.

  
- **March 10, 2026:** Created "Local User and Add to Local Admin Group" configuration policy, "Show local user accounts" policy; Configured [Windows Autopilot and OOBE](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/autopilot/profiles) ([uploaded the hash using Powershell](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/autopilot/add-devices#save-the-hardware-hash-locally-on-a-device-as-a-csv-file))

  - Issues: I ran into an issue where even though the Local User was created and added to the Administrators Group, it would not show up on the Windows sign-in screen, after an hour of research, I realized I had to create a second policy (Settings Catalog) that shows the Local User accounts, the setting that was enabled is called "Enumerate local users on domain-joined computers". I created this account to simulate an enterprise environment where the average user doesn't have Admin Credentials. This account will be used for troubleshooting. In the future, a LAPS policy will be created that randomizes the password and rotates it; further increasing the security posture.

- **March 7, 2026:** Successfully deployed Chrome Enterprise via Win32; mastered the logic differences between MSI and EXE detection, mastered the difference between ALL Intune App Types (eg. Win32, LOB), Created "Google Chrome Configuration and Update Policy" using Administrative Templates ([helpful video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0d_aKup5KlU))
  
- **March 5, 2026:** Successfully created a Microsoft Account; Bought multiple licenses such as M365 Business Premium (No Teams), Entra ID P1 and Intune Plan 1; created a secondary account (SysAdmin Kij); Created Security groups such as Intune-Users, Intune-Devices and Licensing-Entra-P1. Created Bitlocker Policy (Allow Warning For Other Disk Encryption - Enabled, Configure Recovery Password Rotation Refresh on for both Entra ID-joined and hybrid-joined devices, Require Device Encryption - Enabled), Configured Automatic Enrollment for users that sign in/connect Work or School account
